---
title: Speech by Ms WanLing at xxx ceremony year–end bonus
permalink: /newsroom/speeches/chia-wan-ling-test/
date: 2024-01-08
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<ol data-tight="true" class="tight"><li><p>The Minister for Communications and Information has today declared Mr Kenneth Jeyaretnam's (“Mr Jeyaretnam”) website titled <em>The Ricebowl Singapore (TRS</em>) (“TRS website”) and his social media pages on Facebook, Instagram, X (formerly known as Twitter) and LinkedIn (the “online locations”) as “Declared Online Locations” [1] (“DOLs”) under the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act 2019 (“POFMA”). The Declaration will come into effect on 12 December 2023.</p><p></p></li><li><p>The Declaration was made following multiple falsehoods communicated on the online locations. In the last six months, Mr Jeyaretnam has made false claims and repeatedly shared falsehoods about various Government policies and processes, such as fiscal and manpower policies, the Singapore Police Force’s and Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau’s investigation practices, and state property rentals. Mr Jeyaretnam has been issued POFMA Correction Directions in five instances (see Annex for details).</p><p></p><p><em>Background on "Declared Online Locations"</em></p></li></ol><ul><li><p>Under Section 32 of POFMA, an online location may be declared as a “Declared Online Location” (“DOL”) if:</p><p></p><p>i. It has carried three or more different false statements of fact that are the subject of active Part 3 or Part 4 Directions (e.g., POFMA Correction Directions); and</p><p></p><p>ii. At least three of these false statements of fact had been communicated on the online location within six months before the date of the Declaration.</p><p></p></li><li><p>A notice must be published in the Government Gazette when a Declaration is issued. A registry of DOLs can be found at the POFMA Office website.</p><p></p></li><li><p>There are four other online locations that are currently DOLs with effect from 22 Jul 2023 up to 21 July 2025:</p><p>i. The Online Citizen Asia’s (TOCA’s) website</p><p>ii. TOCA’s Facebook page</p><p>iii. TOCA’s X (formerly known as Twitter) account page</p></li></ul><p></p>