---
title: Test Post – Steph
permalink: /newsroom/speeches/test-post-steph/
date: 2024-01-08
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>TRANSCRIPT OF SPEECH BY MR HENG SWEE KEAT, </p><p>DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AND </p><p>COORDINATING MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC POLICIES, AT </p><p>2023 ANNUAL PUBLIC SERVICE LEADERSHIP CEREMONY ON 19 OCT 2023</p><p>Chairman and Members of the Public Service Commission</p><p>Head, Civil Service,</p><p>Colleagues, </p><p>5.	Emerging from the pandemic means returning to BAU work – except that is it no longer “Business AS Usual” but “Business ABOVE usual”! </p><p>a.	Taking advantage of our favourable position post-COVID, the Public Service have pushed ahead with policies across various fronts. </p><p>b.	For example, MOH recently launched Healthier SG – a multi-year strategy to pivot towards a greater emphasis on preventive care. </p><p>i.	This is an effort of significant scale. We have started by inviting all eligible residents aged 60 and above to enrol, so that they can develop a personalised health plan, and gain access to fully subsidised screenings and vaccinations at a trusted, regular care provider. This will also be progressively extended to those aged 40 to 59. </p><p>c.	Another example – MND pushed on to catch up with BTO projects that were delayed by COVID. Over 70% of delayed projects have since been completed, without compromising on safety or quality. </p><p>i.	On top of this, MND will be rolling out the new “Standard, Plus, Prime” framework next year, to keep homeownership affordable, and ensure our public housing system continues to remain fair with good social mixing.</p><p>d.	On the Forward SG front, agencies have intensified engagements with Singaporeans to hear their perspectives on the challenges and opportunities ahead. </p><p>i.	The Forward SG report will be released soon, to reflect these shared perspectives and how everyone in our society can contribute and shape our future. </p><p>ii.	The report will mark a milestone, but the work continues.</p><p>iii.	The Public Service must think about how to operationalise Forward SG’s call to action for Singaporeans. Beyond communicating, we want to collaborate and co-create with them.</p><p>iv.	By inviting the public to consider the trade-offs involved in policymaking, we can build a deeper appreciation of the Government and Public Service’s efforts to build common ground amid diverse views.  </p><p></p>