---
title: Update on Review of Political Office Holders’ Salaries
permalink: /newsroom/parliamentary-replies/update-on-review-of-political-office-holders-salaries/
date: 2024-01-09
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p><strong>Written Reply to Parliamentary Question on update on review of political office holders’ salaries&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>Parliament Sitting: 9 Jan 2024&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>Mr Alex Yam: </strong>To ask the Prime Minister whether he will be proceeding to review political salaries.</p><p><strong>Written Reply by Mr Chan Chun Sing, Minister for Education and Minister-in-charge of the Public Service</strong></p><p>The recommendations from the last political salaries review were announced in 2018. The salary review Committee recommended a review of the political salaries framework about every five years, or when necessary. The Government did not make any changes to political salaries following the 2018 review as the salary structure remained valid and there were economic uncertainties in the previous few years.</p><p>A review of the political salaries was due in 2023. However, the government decided to defer the review as we have other pressing issues to deal with. In 2023, the global geopolitical situation has become more uncertain, with conflicts in the Middle East and Ukraine, and continuing heightened geopolitical contestation. On the economic front, significant uncertainties and downside risks in the global economy remain, impacting our local economy and our wages and inflation outlooks. Hence, we decided to focus on dealing with these key challenges at hand and defer the review of political salaries for now.&nbsp;</p><p>The Government will review the political salaries framework and benchmark in due course to ensure that they remain relevant and up to date.</p>